---
title: "Remarks on a Program of Philippine Art Song at the National Gallery of Art"
date: "2019-05"
location: "Washington, D.C."
---

Good afternoon. I want to extend, on behalf of myself and Enrico, my thanks to the National Gallery of Art for having us today on the occasion of the celebration of Asian Pacific Heritage Month—a most uniquely fitting theme for Filipino people, since there is often some confusion about our exact ethnic category: are we Asians, or Pacific Islanders? The answer may be different depending on who you ask. I myself have no strong opinion, but let’s say this: the Philippines is a Southeast Asian archipelago in the western Pacific, and leave it at that. And what is now the modern Philippine Republic, as you know, has a long shared history with the United States going back over a hundred years. 

As far back as the late 16th century, during the Spanish imperial era, Philippine natives from Luzon traveled via the galleon trade to California (then also a Spanish colony), becoming the first known Asians to arrive in the North American continent since the beginning of the Age of Exploration. By the 20th century, and following the outcome of the Spanish-American war, the islands had become a major colonial project of the United States. Indeed, the Immigration Act of 1917, the most sweeping immigration act in America at the time, allowed unrestricted immigration of Filipinos, to the exclusion of other Asians. The waves of Filipino immigrants that followed were distinct from other Asian immigrants, due to the extent of American influence over the Philippines. Needless to say, this unrestricted wave of immigration would not last for long, but the shared culture between these two nations remains evident. My grasp of history at this point is not that sharp, as I came to America less than 5 years ago, so I’ll turn to personal experience as a composer and musician:

A young Filipino wishing to study composition or classical music will inevitably, at some point, turn to either Europe or the United States because the Philippines doesn’t have a classical music tradition of its own—certainly not a living one with a distinct history tracing back hundreds of years. I myself studied first in Singapore, and then in the United States under American or American-educated teachers. The closest thing to a classical music tradition in the Philippines is perhaps the genre of traditional love song called “kundiman,” which emerged in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. These are art songs, setting pre-existing poetry to music, but the term “kundiman” does not refer to any truly living tradition. Nobody, to my knowledge, is writing kundiman today; these beautiful songs, laden heavily with European-inspired romanticism, have remained a product only of their time.

So a Filipino composer wishing to compose art song is, the way I see it, largely on their own against powerful foreign influences. The program we offer today consists of six songs, representing five composers, each of whom I believe to represent a distinct approach to the art song in terms of impetus, text, musical language, and so on. There are concert arrangements of folk songs, straight settings of poetry with no reference to Philippine musical idioms, and a modern arrangement of a 20th-century kundiman. Most (or all?) of these composers have at some point left the Philippines to pursue advanced studies in America. Some have chosen to stay here in the US, and represent a very small but active group of Filipino composers contributing to the wonderful assortment of musical voices in America. But if they draw on nothing else in common, and if I wish you to come out of hearing this program with one thing, it is with perhaps some sense of the intangible Filipino-ness of these songs. To me this represents a certain degree of romanticism (if you know any Filipinos, you may notice that they are hopeless romantics), as well as a marked straighftorwardness of technique and directness of expression.

One more thing: even if I can’t tangibly tell you what Filipino-American music is in this day and age, it might be worth encouraging you to pay special attention to the language. The Philippine nation is an archipelago of over 7,000 islands, and spoken on those islands are about 180 different indigenous languages. In certain American states with large Asian immigrant populations such as California, Tagalog is the most widely spoken language after English and Spanish. In my opinion it is an elegant language, naturally given to poetry. Besides Tagalog, there is also some Ilocano in the program—which comes from the northern Philippines—as well as Cebuano, from the southern islands. So without further ado, thank you again for being here, and please enjoy the program.