**JOSHUA CERDENIA** is a Filipino composer and performer known for music that ranges wildly from “graceful melancholy” (_Star Tribune_), to works that unfold “like the nascent radiance of a rising sun” (_The Straits Times_), as well as music that “pretty much explodes at the end” (_The New York Times_). He has worked with leading orchestras in the US and abroad, including the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, the Minnesota Orchestra, the Juilliard Orchestra, the Singapore Symphony Orchestra, and the Manila Symphony Orchestra, appearing in such venues as Orchestra Hall in Minneapolis, the Max M. Fisher Music Center in Detroit, and Lincoln Center’s Alice Tully Hall in New York. His chamber and vocal works have been performed by numerous ensembles from across East and Southeast Asia, Europe, and the United States: Ensemble TIMF, the Asian Contemporary Ensemble, Duo Amrein/Henneberger, the Lunar Ensemble, the Yong Siew Toh Conservatory New Music Ensemble, Ensemble Gô, and the New Juilliard Ensemble, among others.

Joshua began his music career in the Philippines at the age of 12, when he was employed as an accompanist with ABS-CBN’s Center for Communication Arts. While studying communication at the Ateneo de Manila University, he became a regular fixture in the college musical theater scene as a pianist and conductor in numerous productions, until receiving a full scholarship to begin his composition studies at the Yong Siew Toh Conservatory of Music in Singapore. He continues to perform as a collaborative pianist, and has appeared in venues such as the Philam Life Auditorium in Manila, the Esplanade and University Cultural Centre in Singapore, the Goethe-Institut in Bangkok, the Forbidden City Concert Hall in Beijing, the Steinway Asia Pacific headquarters in Shanghai, the Paramount Theatre in Los Angeles, Kalayaan Hall at the Philippine Center in New York, and Sidney Harman Hall and the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.

Joshua’s diverse body of work reflects his wide-ranging cultural interests. Just as “diving into \[his\] ouvre might send you looking for footnotes” _(Performance,_ Detroit Symphony Orchestra), his musical endeavors traverse the worlds of classical, popular, jazz, and world music. While living in Singapore, he performed regularly with the Sari-Sari Philippine Kulintang Ensemble, and studied gamelan in Bali with leading teachers in the region. Currently, he is a second-year member of the Tony Award-winning BMI Lehman Engel Musical Theatre Workshop.

Joshua has been the recipient of numerous scholarships and grants to study with preeminent composers Christopher Rouse, Kevin Puts, and Ho Chee Kong at The Juilliard School, the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins University, and the Yong Siew Toh Conservatory of Music at the National University of Singapore. He divides his time between New York City and Manila, Philippines.